[Excel](data types) New APIs for linked entities (#5091)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-data-types-add-properties-to-basic-cell-values.md

---
title: Add properties to basic cell values
description: Add properties to basic cell values.
ms.topic: how-to #Required; leave this attribute/value as-is
ms.date: 04/14/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

> # Add properties to basic cell values

Reviewer: Should this article be tagged as preview? Should any of the other content in this PR (some of the entity card content?) be tagged as preview?

Reviewer 2: If it's not available to all, then yes it should be tagged preview.

Author: fixed

> 

Author: should be added now.

> Add properties to basic cell values in Excel to associate additional information with the values. Similar to entity values, you can add properties to the **string**, **double**, and **Boolean** basic types. Each property is a key/value pair. The following example shows the number 104.67 (double) that represents a bill with added fields named **Drinks**, **Food**, **Tax**, and **Tip**.

Author: You can right-click or hover. Apparently this is intended to be discoverable through UI? I don't see the end-user docs describing it. I can add if you think needed (but it's end-user steps).

---
title: Add properties to basic cell values
description: Add properties to basic cell values.
ms.topic: how-to #Required; leave this attribute/value as-is
ms.date: 04/14/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Add properties to basic cell values (preview)

Add properties to basic cell values in Excel to associate additional information with the values. Similar to entity values, you can add properties to the **string**, **double**, and **Boolean** basic types. Each property is a key/value pair. The following example shows the number 104.67 (a double) that represents a bill with added fields named **Drinks**, **Food**, **Tax**, and **Tip**.

> :::image type="content" source="../images/data-type-basic-fields.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the drinks, food, tax, and tip fields shown for the selected cell value.":::

Reviewer 3: Note that screenshot is one word, if you opt to keep the phrase "Screenshot of..."

```suggestion
:::image type="content" source="../images/data-type-basic-fields.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the drinks, food, tax, and tip fields shown for the selected cell value.":::
```

:::image type="content" source="../images/data-type-basic-data-type-card.png" alt-text="Data type card showing values for drinks, food, tax, and tip properties.":::

Cell value properties can also be used in formulas.

:::image type="content" source="../images/data-type-basic-dot-syntax.png" alt-text="Show user typing 'a1.' and Excel showing a menu with drinks, food, tax, and tip options.":::

## Create a cell value with properties

To create a cell value and add properties to it, use `valuesAsJson` to assign properties. The following code sample shows how to create a new number in cell **A1**. It adds the **Food**, **Drinks**, and additional properties describing a bill in a restaurant. It assigns a JSON description of the properties to `Range.valuesAsJson`.

```javascript
async function createNumberProperties() {
  await Excel.run(async (context) => {
    const sheet = context.workbook.worksheets.getActiveWorksheet();
    const range = sheet.getRange("A1");
    range.valuesAsJson = [
      [
        {
          type: Excel.CellValueType.double,
          basicType: Excel.RangeValueType.double,

>           basicValue: 104.67,

Author: lol, I changed it. I was random adding values and didn't notice that.

>           basicValue: 104.67,

Reviewer 4: @davidchesnut, the screenshots still show the old value. Happy to have the expensive sandwich joke ;-)

To add properties to an existing value, first get the value from the cell using `valuesAsJson`, then add a properties JSON object to it. The following example shows how to get the number value from cell **A1** and assign a property named **Precision** to it. Note that you should check the type of the value to ensure it's a **string**, **double**, or **Boolean** basic type.

```javascript
async function addPropertyToNumber() {
  await Excel.run(async (context) => {
    let sheet = context.workbook.worksheets.getActiveWorksheet();
    let range = sheet.getRange("A1");
    range.load("valuesAsJson");
    await context.sync();
    let cellValue = range.valuesAsJson[0][0] as any;

    // Only apply this property to a double.
    if (cellValue.basicType === "Double") {
      cellValue.properties = {
        Precision: {
          type: Excel.CellValueType.double,
          basicValue: 4
        }
      };
      range.valuesAsJson = [[cellValue]];
      await context.sync();
    }
  });
}
```

## Differences from entity values

Adding properties to **string**, **Boolean**, and **double** basic types is similar to adding properties to entity values. However there are differences.

> - Basic types have a non-error fallback so that calculations can operate on them. For example, consider the formula **=SUM(A1:A3)** where **A1** is **1** (a double with properties), **A2** is **2**, and **A3** is **3**. The sum returns the correct result of **6**. The formula wouldn't work if **A1** was an entity value.

Author: added some clarification text.

> - When the value of a basic type is used in a calculation, the properties are discarded. In the previous example of **=SUM(A1:A3)** where A1 is a double with properties, the result of **6** does not have any properties.

Author: They don't exist in the new cell with the calculated result. I can rewrite if that is not clear.

> - When the value of a basic type is used in a calculation, the properties are discarded. In the previous example of **=SUM(A1:A3)** where A1 is a double with properties, the result of **6** does not have any properties.

Author: reworded.

                    }
                  }
                },
                Charging: {
                  type: Excel.CellValueType.boolean,
                  basicType: Excel.RangeValueType.boolean,
                  basicValue: true
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    ];
    await context.sync();
  });
}
```

The following image shows the number value and the data type card for the nested laptop entity.

:::image type="content" source="../images/data-type-basic-nested-entities.png" alt-text="Cell value in Excel showing battery charge at 70%, and the data type card showing the nested laptop entity with charging and power consumption property values.":::

## Compatibility

On previous versions of Excel that don't support the data types feature, users see a warning of **Unavailable Data Type**. The value still displays in the cell and functions as expected with formulas and other Excel features. If the value is a formatted number, calculations use the `basicValue` in place of the formatted number.

On Excel versions older than Office 2016, the value is shown in the cell with no error and is indistinguishable from a basic value.

> ## Related content

Reviewer: We almost always call this section "See also"
```suggestion
## See also
```
